First draft of 21.0.0.2 GA blog post (#1088)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2021-02-19-configure-trustedHeaderOrigin-21002.adoc

blog_description: With Open Liberty 21.0.0.2 you can now configure `trustedHeaderOrigin` and `trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin` using IP address wildcards and hostnames. Also included a number of significant bug fixes.
open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---
= Configure trustedHeaderOrigin and trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin to be configured with a IP segment with Open Liberty 21.0.0.2
Jakub Pomykala <https://github.com/jakub-pomykala>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /

// tag::intro[]

With Open Liberty 21.0.0.2 you can now configure `trustedHeaderOrigin` and `trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin` using IP address wildcards and hostnames.

In link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 21.0.0.2:

* <<trustedHeader, trustedHeaderOrigin Configuration Improvements>>
* <<bugs, Significant bugs fixed in this release>>

View the list of fixed bugs in link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3ARELEASE_VERSION+label%3A%22release+bug%22[21.0.0.2].
// end::intro[]

// tag::run[]
[#run]

== Run your apps using 21.0.0.2

> If you're using link:{url-prefix}/guides/maven-intro.html[Maven], here are the coordinates:

Reviewer: Don't change this yet but if it looks good on the beta blog then we might consider moving this section to the bottom??

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.openliberty</groupId>
    <artifactId>openliberty-runtime</artifactId>
    <version>21.0.0.2</version>
    <type>zip</type>
</dependency>
----

Or for link:{url-prefix}/guides/gradle-intro.html[Gradle]:

[source,gradle]
----
dependencies {
    libertyRuntime group: 'io.openliberty', name: 'openliberty-runtime', version: '[21.0.0.2,)'
}
----

Or if you're using Docker:

[source]
----
FROM open-liberty
----
//end::run[]

Or take a look at our link:{url-prefix}/downloads/[Downloads page].

[link=https://stackoverflow.com/tags/open-liberty]
image::img/blog/blog_btn_stack.svg[Ask a question on Stack Overflow, align="center"]

//tag::features[]

[#trustedHeader]
=== HTTP Channel Configuration Improvements

> "WebSphere private headers" in the form `$WSXX` are used by WebSphere-aware proxies to provide information about original requests. The values provided by these headers are made available to the application via `ServletRequest` APIs like `getRemoteHost()`. Two HTTP Dispatcher custom properties are provided by Liberty to control over which remote hosts are allowed to send WebSphere private headers: `trustedHeaderOrigin` and `trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin`. Ideally, these properties should be configured to only trust known proxy servers which will be forwarding requests to the Liberty server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"WebSphere private headers" in the form `$WSXX` are used by WebSphere-aware proxies to provide information about original requests. The values provided by these headers are made available to the application via `ServletRequest` APIs such as `getRemoteHost()`. Two HTTP Dispatcher custom properties are provided by Open Liberty to control which remote hosts are allowed to send the `trustedHeaderOrigin` and `trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin` private headers. Ideally, these dispatcher properties should be configured to only trust known proxy servers which will be forwarding requests to the Open Liberty server.
```

Author: Done

> Previously, `trustedHeaderOrigin` and `trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin` only accepted `*`, `none`, or a list of full IP addresses (eg. `"127.0.0.1, 192.168.6.6"`). As requested by customers, both properties can now additionally be configured with IP address wildcards and hostnames. As an example, the following list which will be valid for either property:`"localhost, 127.0.0.1, 192.168.*.*, 0:0:0:0:0:ffff:*:*, *.ibm.com"`

Reviewer 2: The example list at the end here isn't displaying with code formatting correctly, but I'm not sure why
`"localhost, 127.0.0.1, 192.168.*.*, 0:0:0:0:0:ffff:*:*, *.ibm.com"`

The same list as a server.xml example:
```    
<httpDispatcher trustedHeaderOrigin="*" trustedSensitiveHeaderOrigin="localhost, 127.0.0.1, 192.168.*.*, 0:0:0:0:0:ffff:*:*, *.ibm.com"/>
```

For more information about these properties, see link:{url-prefix}docs/21.0.0.2/reference/config/httpDispatcher.html#[Open Liberty docs on httpDispatcher]

[#bugs]
== Significant bugs fixed in this release

We’ve spent some time fixing bugs. The following sections describe just some of the issues resolved in this release. If you’re interested, here’s the  link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues?q=label%3Arelease%3A21002+label%3A%22release+bug%22[full list of bugs fixed in 21.0.0.2].

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/15433[System WABs may come online with the web container after server reports started]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/15433[System Web Application Bundles may not be fully provisioned until after the server reports as started]
```

Author: Done

+

> When a WAB is included in a Liberty feature (also called a system WAB) it is possible that the server started message and the TCP ports will be opened and listening before the WAB has been fully provisioned with the web container. This is different behaviour to web applications WARs where the server started and TCP ports are delayed until all the applications have started or a timeout has occurred on server start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Web Application Bundle (WAB) is included in a Liberty feature (also called a system WAB) it is possible that the server started message and the TCP ports will be opened and listening before the WAB has been fully provisioned with the web container. This is different behaviour to web applications WARs where the server started and TCP ports are delayed until all the applications have started or a timeout has occurred on server start.
```

Author: Done

This has been fixed by delaying the server started message and TCP port listening until the system WABs are ready to serve, or a timeout has occurred. This has been done by introducing a new service type `ServerReadyStatus`, the feature manager will call this service before registering `ServerStarted`. Implementations of `ServerReadyStatus` have the check method called to allow them to block while waiting for the server to be ready before proceeding to register `ServerStarted`.

This allows the `WABInstaller` to check on the status of the system WABs to make sure the have completed their provisioning to the web container. 

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/15698[FeatureUtility not parsing liberty custom environment variables]
+
When the entry is `/${shared.config.dir}/server.xml”` and the environment variable is `WLP_USER_DIR=/test/` in the `test/config/server.xml` file the user recieves an error stating that "it couldn't find file at /user/test/wlp/usr/shared/config/server.xml" where it should have been looking for `test/config/server.xml`.

> This bug causes include tags to not be prased and replaces the environment variables found link:https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSEQTP_liberty/com.ibm.websphere.wlp.doc/ae/twlp_admin_customvars.html[here] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This bug causes include tags to not be parsed and replaces the environment variables found link:https://openliberty.io/docs/21.0.0.1/reference/config/server-configuration-overview.html#server-env[here] 
```
Check that new link with the developer

Reviewer: Also, not sure if the whole sentence quite makes sense?? It almost reads like the bug causes environment variables to be replaced .... maybe there should be a _not_ in there somewhere??

Author: changed to : "This bug caused include tags to not be parsed correctly by not replacing the environment variables found "

* link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/15550[NullPointerException in HttpServletRequest or HttpServletResponse context proxies]
+
Using the `HttpServletRequest` or `HttpServletResponse` JAX-RS context proxies with a null runtime context previously may have resulted in a `NullPointerException` similar to the following:

[source, java]
----
java.lang.NullPointerException
at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke0(Native Method)
at sun.reflect.NativeMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(NativeMethodAccessorImpl.java:90)
at sun.reflect.DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:55)
at java.lang.reflect.Method.invoke(Method.java:508)
at com.ibm.ws.jaxrs20.injection.HttpServletRequestInjectionProxy$1.invoke(HttpServletRequestInjectionProxy.java:58)
----

This issue was resolved by adding a null checks to these two proxy classes similar to those in other proxy classes.

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/14109[Update gRPC dependencies to 1.35]

Reviewer: Move this GRPC issue to be first

Author: Done

+
Currently Open Liberty uses `grpc-java` version 1.31.1 to provide its `grpc-1.0` and `grpcClient-1.0` features. This issue will update the `grpc-java` dependencies we build on to their latest version which is 1.35.0. The 1.35.0 release we're pulling in provides numerous improvements and bug fixes; for a full list see link:https://github.com/grpc/grpc-java/releases[GRPC Java Release Notes]

> * link:https://github.com/OpenLiberty/open-liberty/issues/14175[Expression Language 3.0 value lookup performance improvement]

Reviewer: And this one second

Author: Done

4. The ClassCastException might occur near the end of the request cycle when the server trying to cache the information for the served static resource.

`A java.lang.ClassCastException` might occur near the end of request cycle for a static resource (i.e xml, html, jpg, css...). The response is still sending back to a client normally without any issue.

An example of the exception:

[source, java]
----
java.lang.ClassCastException: com.example.MyWrappedRequest incompatible with com.ibm.ws.webcontainer40.srt.SRTServletRequest40
at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer40.servlet.CacheServletWrapper40.(CacheServletWrapper40.java:57)
at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer40.servlet.factory.CacheServletWrapperFactory40Impl.createCacheServletWrapper(CacheServletWrapperFactory40Impl.java:30)
at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer.WebContainer.addToCache(WebContainer.java:1231)
at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer.extension.DefaultExtensionProcessor.handleRequest(DefaultExtensionProcessor.java:538)
at com.ibm.ws.webcontainer.filter.WebAppFilterChain.invokeTarget(WebAppFilterChain.java:182)
----

This bug has been removed by fixing a `ClassCastException` when caching a static servlet wrapper under `servlet-4.0` feature.

> 

Reviewer 3: don't forget to add an 
`// end::features[]`  tag

Author: Done
